EDU-18844 - Update delivery promise components guide to include API details (#2779)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/Search/setting-up-delivery-promise-components.md

Reviewer: Atualizar link para não precisar de redirect.
```markdown
>ℹ️ Delivery Promise supports any seller architecture (franchise accounts, VTEX Sellers, [Seller Portal](https://help.vtex.com/en/docs/tracks/accounts-and-architecture#vtex-account-types).
```

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```markdown
The availability appears following these rules:
```

Author: ```suggestion
The availability appears following these rules:
```

Author: ```suggestion
>ℹ️ Delivery Promise supports any seller architecture (franchise accounts, VTEX Sellers, [Seller Portal](https://help.vtex.com/en/docs/tracks/accounts-and-architecture#vtex-account-types), and external sellers).
```

excerpt: ""
hidden: false
createdAt: "2025-05-23T22:18:24.684Z"
updatedAt: "2026-06-23T12:00:00.000Z"
seeAlso:
 - "/docs/apps/vtex.delivery-promise-components"
 - "/docs/guides/gathering-delivery-promise-information"
---

>ℹ️ This feature is in closed beta, which means that only selected customers can access it. If you are interested in implementing it in the future, please contact our [Support](https://support.vtex.com/hc/en-us) team.

> The [Delivery Promise (Beta)](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/delivery-promise-beta--p9EJH9GgxL0JceA6dBswd) feature helps create a more accurate and reliable shopping experience by ensuring customers only see products that can be delivered to the provided address or picked up at available locations.

Reviewer: Atualizar link para não precisar de redirect.
```suggestion
The [Delivery Promise (Beta)](https://help.vtex.com/en/docs/tutorials/delivery-promise-beta) feature helps create a more accurate and reliable shopping experience by ensuring customers only see products that can be delivered to the provided address or picked up at available locations.
```

excerpt: ""
hidden: false
createdAt: "2025-05-23T22:18:24.684Z"
updatedAt: "2026-06-23T12:00:00.000Z"
seeAlso:
 - "/docs/apps/vtex.delivery-promise-components"
 - "/docs/guides/gathering-delivery-promise-information"
---

>ℹ️ This feature is in closed beta, which means that only selected customers can access it. If you are interested in implementing it in the future, please contact our [Support](https://support.vtex.com/hc/en-us) team.

> The [Delivery Promise (Beta)](https://help.vtex.com/en/docs/tutorials/delivery-promise-beta) feature helps create a more accurate and reliable shopping experience by ensuring customers only see products that can be delivered to the provided address or picked up at available locations.

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
The [Delivery Promise (Beta)](https://help.vtex.com/en/docs/tutorials/delivery-promise-beta) feature helps create a more accurate and reliable shopping experience by ensuring customers only see products the store can deliver to the provided address or pick up at available locations.
```

excerpt: ""
hidden: false
createdAt: "2025-05-23T22:18:24.684Z"

> updatedAt: "2026-06-23T12:00:00.000Z"

Author: ```suggestion
updatedAt: "2026-07-27T12:00:00.000Z"
```

If you're building your storefront with Store Framework, you can enable this experience using two key apps:

- [Delivery Promise Components](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/apps/vtex.delivery-promise-components): Used to display blocks for postal code, delivery versus pickup, and pickup point selection.
- [Search Result](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/apps/vtex.search-result): Used to implement sidebar filters.

> Additionally, you can leverage the [Delivery Promise Suggestions API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/delivery-promise-suggestions-api) to display delivery-related tags and badges directly on product cards in the Product Listing Page (PLP), such as "Same Day Delivery", "Express Delivery", and "Pickup Today". This brings delivery context earlier into the shopping journey, improving product discoverability and conversion rates. For more details, see [Gathering delivery promise information](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/gathering-delivery-promise-information).

Reviewer: Trocar "This" para saber a que se refere.
```suggestion
Additionally, you can leverage the [Delivery Promise Suggestions API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/delivery-promise-suggestions-api) to display delivery-related tags and badges directly on product cards in the Product Listing Page (PLP), such as "Same Day Delivery", "Express Delivery", and "Pickup Today". Showing these suggestions brings delivery context earlier into the shopping journey, improving product discoverability and conversion rates. For more details, see [Gathering delivery promise information](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/gathering-delivery-promise-information).
```

This guide walks you through the basic setup needed to implement Delivery Promise in your store.

>ℹ️ Explore the [Delivery Promise Figma library](https://www.figma.com/community/file/1545494767147168145/delivery-promise-by-vtex) to learn more about component specs, usage guidelines, reference use cases, and behavioral patterns.

## Before you begin

> To enable Delivery Promise in your store, the following conditions must be met:

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
To enable Delivery Promise in your store, you must meet the following conditions:
```

- The store must use [Intelligent Search](https://help.vtex.com/en/tracks/vtex-intelligent-search--19wrbB7nEQcmwzDPl1l4Cb/3qgT47zY08biLP3d5os3DG).
- Check if you have installed the `0.5.0` or a later version of the [`search-session`](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/apps/vtex.search-session) app. To do this, run the `vtex list` command in your terminal and search for the app in the results. If you don't have this app installed, run the command `vtex install vtex.search-session`.

> - Your storefront must be built with [Store Framework](https://help.vtex.com/en/tracks/vtex-store-overview--eSDNk26pdvemF3XKM0nK9/67SCtUreXxKYWhZh8n0zvZ#store-framework) to enable the components in this guide. If you use FastStore, check the [FastStore Delivery Promise implementation guide](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/delivery-promise-implementation). If your store is headless, check [Delivery Promise for headless stores](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/delivery-promise-for-headless-stores).

Reviewer: Atualizar link para não precisar de redirect. Ou usar link do Dev Portal: https://developers.vtex.com/en/docs/guides/store-framework.
```suggestion
- Your storefront must be built with [Store Framework](https://developers.vtex.com/en/docs/guides/store-framework) to enable the components in this guide. If you use FastStore, check the [FastStore Delivery Promise implementation guide](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/delivery-promise-implementation). If your store is headless, check [Delivery Promise for headless stores](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/delivery-promise-for-headless-stores).
```

* [Delivery Promise Components](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/apps/vtex.delivery-promise-components): Used to display blocks for postal code, delivery versus pickup, and pickup point selection.
* [Search Result](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/apps/vtex.search-result): Used to implement sidebar filters.

> Additionally, you can leverage the [Delivery Promise Suggestions API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/delivery-promise-suggestions-api) to display delivery-related tags and badges directly on product cards in the Product Listing Page (PLP), such as "Same Day Delivery", "Express Delivery", and "Pickup Today". This brings delivery context earlier into the shopping journey, improving product discoverability and conversion rates.

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can leverage the [Delivery Promise Suggestions API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/delivery-promise-suggestions-api) to display delivery-related tags and badges directly on product cards in the Product Listing Page (PLP), such as "Same Day Delivery", "Express Delivery", and "Pickup Today". This brings delivery context earlier into the shopping journey, improving product discoverability and conversion rates. For more details, see [Gathering delivery promise information](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/gathering-delivery-promise-information).
```

2. Declare the blocks in your theme header (or another layout that should show the controls). The app exposes three header blocks.

  | Block                      | Description                                                                                           |
  | -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | `shopper-location-setter`  | **Required.** Collects the shopper's location (postal code or equivalent). This value drives all Delivery Promise subsequent availability calculations and filters.|
  | `shipping-method-selector` | Optional. A control for choosing between delivery and pickup after a location is set. |
  | `pickup-point-selector`    | Optional. A control for choosing which pickup point to use after a location is set.  |

> 

Author: ```suggestion
| Block                      | Description                                                                                           |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `shopper-location-setter`  | **Required.** Collects the shopper's location (postal code or equivalent). This value drives all Delivery Promise subsequent availability calculations and filters.|
| `shipping-method-selector` | Optional. A control for choosing between delivery and pickup after a location is set. |
| `pickup-point-selector`    | Optional. A control for choosing which pickup point to use after a location is set.  |

```

>    | `pickup-point-selector`    | Optional. A control for choosing which pickup point to use after a location is set.  |

Reviewer: - Corrigir alinhamento da tabela.
- Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
   | Block                      | Description                                                                                                                                                         |
   | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | `shopper-location-setter`  | **Required.** Collects the shopper's location (postal code or equivalent). This value drives all Delivery Promise subsequent availability calculations and filters. |
   | `shipping-method-selector` | Optional. A control for choosing between delivery and pickup after setting a location.                                                                               |
   | `pickup-point-selector`    | Optional. A control for choosing which pickup point to use after setting a location.                                                                                 |
```

>    | `shipping-method-selector` | Optional. A control for choosing between delivery and pickup after setting a location.                                                                               |

Reviewer: Alinhamento da tabela com as outras linhas.
```suggestion
   | `shipping-method-selector` | Optional. A control for choosing between delivery and pickup after setting a location.                                                                              |
```

>    | `pickup-point-selector`    | Optional. A control for choosing which pickup point to use after setting a location.                                                                                 |

Reviewer: Alinhamento da tabela com as outras linhas.
```suggestion
   | `pickup-point-selector`    | Optional. A control for choosing which pickup point to use after setting a location.                                                                                |
```

>    >ℹ️ The `shopper-location-setter` block is required and must always be included in the header. `shipping-method-selector` and `pickup-point-selector` are optional. They complement the location setter but do not replace it, since both depend on the location already set in the session. Add them only if you want to expose additional controls in the UI. Otherwise, keep the header simple: either `shopper-location-setter` alone, or `shopper-location-setter` paired with one of the selectors. Using all three together is possible but uncommon.

Reviewer: - Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
- Trocar "They" para saber a que se refere.
```suggestion
   >ℹ️ The `shopper-location-setter` block is required, and you must always include it in the header. `shipping-method-selector` and `pickup-point-selector` are optional. These blocks complement the location setter but do not replace it, since both depend on the location already set in the session. Add them only if you want to expose additional controls in the UI. Otherwise, keep the header simple: either `shopper-location-setter` alone, or `shopper-location-setter` paired with one of the selectors. Using all three together is possible but uncommon.
```

          "pickup-point-selector"
        ]
      },

      "shopper-location-setter": {
        "props": {
          "required": false,
          "mode": "default",
          "showLocationDetectorButton": false
        }
      },

      "pickup-point-selector": {
        "props": {
          "mode": "default"
        }
      }
  ```

3. Configure the behavior with props to customize the blocks. Below are the available props.

#### `shopper-location-setter`

  | Prop                         | Type      | Default     | Description                                                                                                            |
  | ---------------------------- | --------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | `required`                   | `boolean` | `false`     | When `true`, opens a non-dismissible postal code modal until a valid code is set. When `false`, uses the popover flow. |
  | `mode`                       | `string`  | `"default"` | Display mode: `default` or `icon`.                                                                                     |

>   | `showLocationDetectorButton` | `boolean` | `false`     | Shows the control that uses the browser geolocation API to suggest the postal code. Available only on this block.      |

Author: ```suggestion
| Prop                         | Type      | Default     | Description                                                                                                            |
| ---------------------------- | --------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `required`                   | `boolean` | `false`     | When `true`, opens a non-dismissible postal code modal until a valid code is set. When `false`, uses the popover flow. |
| `mode`                       | `string`  | `"default"` | Display mode: `default` or `icon`.                                                                                     |
| `showLocationDetectorButton` | `boolean` | `false`     | Shows the control that uses the browser geolocation API to suggest the postal code. Available only on this block.      |
```

>    | `required`                   | `boolean` | `false`     | When `true`, opens a non-dismissible postal code modal until a valid code is set. When `false`, uses the popover flow. |

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
   | `required`                   | `boolean` | `false`     | When `true`, opens a non-dismissible postal code modal until setting a valid code. When `false`, uses the popover flow. |
```

>    | `showLocationDetectorButton` | `boolean` | `false`     | Shows the control that uses the browser geolocation API to suggest the postal code. Available only on this block.      |

Reviewer: Alinhamento da tabela.
```suggestion
   | Prop                         | Type      | Default     | Description                                                                                                             |
   | ---------------------------- | --------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | `required`                   | `boolean` | `false`     | When `true`, opens a non-dismissible postal code modal until setting a valid code. When `false`, uses the popover flow. |
   | `mode`                       | `string`  | `"default"` | Display mode: `default` or `icon`.                                                                                      |
   | `showLocationDetectorButton` | `boolean` | `false`     | Shows the control that uses the browser geolocation API to suggest the postal code. Available only on this block.       |
```

#### `shipping-method-selector`

  | Prop       | Type      | Default     | Description                                                                                                       |
  | ---------- | --------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | `required` | `boolean` | `false`     | When `true`, the shipping method modal cannot be dismissed until a method is selected (after a postal code is entered). |

>   | `mode`     | `string`  | `"default"` | Display mode: `default` or `icon`.                                                                                |

Author: ```suggestion
| Prop       | Type      | Default     | Description                                                                                                       |
| ---------- | --------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `required` | `boolean` | `false`     | When `true`, the shipping method modal cannot be dismissed until a method is selected (after a postal code is entered). |
| `mode`     | `string`  | `"default"` | Display mode: `default` or `icon`.                                                                                |
```

#### `pickup-point-selector`

  | Prop   | Type     | Default     | Description                        |
  | ------ | -------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------- |

>   | `mode` | `string` | `"default"` | Display mode: `default` or `icon`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Prop   | Type     | Default     | Description                        |
| ------ | -------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `mode` | `string` | `"default"` | Display mode: `default` or `icon`. |
```

>    | `mode`     | `string`  | `"default"` | Display mode: `default` or `icon`.                                                                                |

Reviewer: - Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
- Corrigir alinhamento da tabela.
```suggestion
   | Prop       | Type      | Default     | Description                                                                                                      |
   | ---------- | --------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | `required` | `boolean` | `false`     | When `true`, cannot dismiss the shipping method modal until a method is selected (after entering a postal code). |
   | `mode`     | `string`  | `"default"` | Display mode: `default` or `icon`.                                                                               |
```

1. In your theme's `manifest.json`, add the `search-result` app as a dependency:

  ```json
   "dependencies": {
       "vtex.search-result": "3.x"
   }
  ```

2. Ensure your theme uses either the `search-result-layout.desktop` or `search-result-layout.mobile` blocks, depending on the layout. Inside these layouts, include the `filter-navigator.v3` block so the sidebar can render filters:

 ```json store/search.json
 {
   "store.search#default": {
     "blocks": ["search-result-layout"]
   },
   "search-result-layout": {
     "children": [
       "search-result-layout.desktop",
       "search-result-layout.mobile"
     ]
   },
   "search-result-layout.desktop": {
     "children": ["filter-navigator.v3", "search-content"],
     "props": {
       "showShippingMethodFacet": true
     }
   },
   "search-result-layout.mobile": {
     "children": ["filter-navigator.v3", "search-content"],
     "props": {
       "showShippingMethodFacet": true
     }
   }
 }

>  ```

Author: ```suggestion
  ```json store/search.json
  {
    "store.search#default": {
      "blocks": ["search-result-layout"]
    },
    "search-result-layout": {
      "children": [
        "search-result-layout.desktop",
        "search-result-layout.mobile"
      ]
    },
    "search-result-layout.desktop": {
      "children": ["filter-navigator.v3", "search-content"],
      "props": {
        "showShippingMethodFacet": true
      }
    },
    "search-result-layout.mobile": {
      "children": ["filter-navigator.v3", "search-content"],
      "props": {
        "showShippingMethodFacet": true
      }
    }
  }
  ```
```

2. Ensure your theme uses either the `search-result-layout.desktop` or `search-result-layout.mobile` blocks, depending on the layout. Inside these layouts, include the `filter-navigator.v3` block so the sidebar can render filters:

   ```json store/search.json
   {
     "store.search#default": {
       "blocks": ["search-result-layout"]
     },
     "search-result-layout": {
       "children": [
         "search-result-layout.desktop",
         "search-result-layout.mobile"
       ]
     },
     "search-result-layout.desktop": {
       "children": ["filter-navigator.v3", "search-content"],
       "props": {
         "showShippingMethodFacet": true
       }
     },
     "search-result-layout.mobile": {
       "children": ["filter-navigator.v3", "search-content"],
       "props": {
         "showShippingMethodFacet": true
       }
     }
   }
   ```

> 3. Enable the Delivery Promise filters by setting the `showShippingMethodFacet` to `true` in each flexible search layout where the facet should appear. This property is disabled by default, so the shipping method filter remains hidden unless explicitly enabled. The example above enables it on both desktop and mobile layouts.

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
3. Set `showShippingMethodFacet` to `true` in each flexible search layout where you want the Delivery Promise filters to appear. By default, this property is disabled, so the shipping method filter remains hidden unless you explicitly enable it. The example above enables it on both desktop and mobile layouts.
```

> 4. Optionally, define which shipping options should be displayed using the `availableShippingValues` prop in the same layout blocks. When this prop is not defined, or when it is set to an empty array, the default options are used: `delivery`, `pickup-in-point`, and `pickup-nearby`. When you provide a non-empty array, it replaces the default entirely, and only the specified values are shown. Supported values correspond to the search API facet names and include: `delivery`, `pickup-in-point`, `pickup-nearby`, `pickup-all`.

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
4. Optionally, use the `availableShippingValues` prop in the same layout blocks to define which shipping options to display. If you don't define this prop or set it to an empty array, the system uses the default options: `delivery`, `pickup-in-point`, and `pickup-nearby`. When you provide a non-empty array, it replaces the default entirely and shows only the specified values. Supported values correspond to the search API facet names: `delivery`, `pickup-in-point`, `pickup-nearby`, `pickup-all`.
```

   }
   ```

> The shipping method facet appears only when `showShippingMethodFacet` is enabled. The options listed match `availableShippingValues` when set, or fall back to the default when the prop is not provided. Other Delivery Promise-related facets continue to behave as usual.

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
The shipping method facet appears only when `showShippingMethodFacet` is enabled. If you set `availableShippingValues`, the component lists those options; otherwise, it falls back to the default. Other Delivery Promise-related facets behave as usual.
```
